

1. C# Language Basics 
Write a C program to read a string from the user and create a new string from this string by shuffling the positions of the first and last characters. 
Write a C program to nead "n" digit integer (for es. 123, 1234, 12345 etc) and print the sum of all digits. 
Write a program to check whether the number is Palindrome or not (Using Recursion and without using Recursion). 
Write a C program that read number from the user and calculate square root. Handle the exception if number is negative. 

2. Delegates & Exceptional Handling (Practice programs-Optional) 
Implement 2 tier exception handling. 
Create class library MyOperations having following functiona 
Write a MyCustomException class which has Error code and message. 
MyOperations Class library has functions which captares exceptions like 
DivideByZeroException and IndexOutOfRangeException exception. Every time an exception is caught, instance of MyCustomExurption is created with user defined ems codes and error messages. 
Write console-based application to invoke MyOperations class functionality. In case of exceptions, print custom exception details with Error code and Error description. 
Write a program to demonstrate College fest event handling. 
Write a form-based application accepting number of people visiting fest 
Implement college as event publisher publishing CollegeFest as event 
Decorators and canerers are interests in handing this event. 
Catering charges per plate are Rs200. 
Basic decoration expenses are basic Rs 10000 plus 10m per student. 
Display tutal catering and dococation bill as event response. 

3. Object Oriented Programming: Inheritance, Abstract classes and interfaces 
a console-frased program 
To implement OOPS concept like virtual, override and new concept. 
The class may have public, provate and static construское. 
Implementing any interface is mandatory 
2 
Note: Implement any one of the programs such as Employee class. Person Class etc given in teaching session and shared on group 

Note: Implement any one of the programs such as Employee class, Person Class etc given in teaching session and shared on group 

4. Windows Form Application Development ((Use Appropriate controls and event handlers) 
a. Create a Form for the T-Shirt Ordering Calculator: 
Allow user to enter in a number of T-shirts to buy 
Allow user to choose Small (Rs. 125), Medium (Rs. 175) or Large (Rs. 250) 
Allow user to enter in a promocode of "TRUEBLUE" for a 10% discount 
Apply 9% GST on final order price 
Display Final Price 
b. Implement a Simple Calculator 
a. Create an UI for Railway Reservation (Booking) Form 
b. Create UI for Hospital OPD Registration Form 

5. File Handling Concepts 
a. Write a program to read and write and append the text file contents. 
b. Write a program to read and write contents of binary file. 
c. Write program to demonstrate usage of DirectoryInfo and FileInfo classes to get the file and directory information from the given path. 

6. XML 
Write a program to 
Read all xml nodes 
Read single xml node 
Insert new XML node 
Update the xml file with the newly inserted node. 

7. Working with Databases (CRUD operations) 
Write a program to perform Create, Update, and Delete operations on Microsoft SQL Server Database using ADO.Net classes, 

8. LINQ 
a. Write a program to demonstrate LINQ to array. 
b. Write a program to demonstrate LINQ to XML.. 
c. Write a program to demonstrate LINQ to SQL.. 
d. Write a program to demonstrate LINQ to collection. 
